Sara/mkt 351 update getting started with alternate (#554)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-app/getting-started-with-semgrep-app.md

append_help_link: true
title: Getting started with Semgrep App
description: "Get started with Semgrep App to scan for security vulnerabilities on cloud repositories hosted on GitHub and GitLab."
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

Semgrep App supports code scanning from:

* a local command-line interface (CLI)

> * a cloud repository, such as GitHub and GitLab

Reviewer: Just those two, or are there more? I am thinking if it is more accurate to say “a CI/CD environment, such as GitHub Actions, GitLab CI/CD, or other CI provider environments?”

Reviewer: Or maybe it should be a cloud-hosted repository? That would be the case if this refers to code (repositories) that are hosted in an online place, like GitHub.com or GitLab SaaS. However, when I read section `Option B: Adding a cloud repository from GitHub or GitLab` that seems to have instructions for the _CI environments_ of those cloud-hosted repositories / services.

Reviewer 2: We should be very specific about this. Cloud repository not a well defined term. We should say "Source Code Management (SCM) systems like GitHub, GitLab, and BitBucket through CI integration"

Reviewer: @s-santillan ok, makes sense. Thanks!

> This guide walks you through scanning code in both environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through scanning code in both types of environments.

```

Semgrep App enables users to choose what findings prevent a pull or merge request (PR or MR) from merging into the repository. Setting these blocking and non-blocking rules is achieved through the Rule Board.

### Scanning a new project 

A **project** is a repository from either:

* Your GitHub or GitLab account that you add to Semgrep App for scanning. Projects from GitHub or GitLab are integrated through Semgrep App.

> * A local git repository in your machine. Projects from your local machine are integrated through Semgrep CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A local Git repository in your machine. Projects from your local machine are integrated through Semgrep CLI.

```

Semgrep App can run scans on many projects with rules set in the Rule Board. First-time Semgrep App users scan projects with pre-selected rules chosen based on the repository's language and framework. To view these pre-selected rules, see the [Registry default ruleset](https://semgrep.dev/p/default).

Over time, users modify the Rule Board with rules specific to their codebase's security or business goals.  

#### Option A: Adding a local repository through Semgrep CLI

> Adding a local repository is considered a standalone scan. This means the scan is manually triggered and is not continuous, unlike a CI job. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding a local repository enables standalone scans. This means scans are manually triggered and are not continuous, unlike scans run in a CI job. 

```

Author: Hmm... there's a subtle difference between "enabling a standalone scan" and the implication that a scan is treated by semgrep as standalone. Maybe the problem lies in "adding a local repository". There is no feature that is technically "enabled" here. I am thinking:

> Scanning a project from the CLI is a standalone action. This means that you manually triggered the scan. Scans from CLI are not continuous nor scheduled, unlike scans run in a CI job.

Does this work? @pabloest

Reviewer: @s-santillan Yes, that’s much better than what I wrote :)

6. View your project's [findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings).

:::note
Scans from local repositories do not access their corresponding remote repositories. For this reason, links to specific lines of code in the Findings page are not created. See [Linking local scans to their remote repositories](#linking-local-scans-to-their-remote-repositories) for a workaround.
:::

##### Linking local scans to their remote repositories 

![Screenshot of findings page snippet with no hyperlinks](../img/findings-no-hyperlinks.png "Screenshot of findings page snippet with no hyperlinks")
*Figure 1.* Partial screenshot of findings page with no hyperlinks.

Local repository scans require additional configuration to link to their corresponding remote repositories. Set up environment variables within your command line to configure cross-linking between local and remote repositories within Semgrep App.

To set up environment variables:

1. Ensure that your current working directory is the root of the repository to create links for. 
2. Set up the `SEMGREP_REPO_URL`:
    1. Retrieve the URL by navigating to your online repository. Copy the value in the address bar. This is your `URL_ADDRESS`.

>     2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `URL_ADDRESS` with the value from the previous step.

Reviewer: Where should the user enter this text? I assume it should be entered into the command line and think if that’s the case, the user should be explicitly instructed as such (at least for the first variable, maybe not for all).

Reviewer 2: Yup, we should make sure they know they need to set up shell environment variables

Author: I will make it clearer. Maybe I should even have a screenshot...

Author: Have added 2 screenshots to make it super clear.

    ```bash
        git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD
    ```
    2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `BRANCH_NAME` with the value from the previous step.
    <pre><code>
    SEMGREP_BRANCH=<em>BRANCH_NAME</em>
    </code></pre>
4. Set up the `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME`:
    1. Retrieve the repository name by logging in to your GitHub or GitLab account and copying the repository name from your dashboard. 
    2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `REPO_NAME` with the value from the previous step.
    <pre><code>
    SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=<em>REPO_NAME</em>
    </code></pre>
5. Set up the `SEMGREP_COMMIT`:
    1. Run the following to retrieve the commit hash:
    ```bash
        git log -n 1
    ```
    2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `COMMIT_HASH` with the value from the previous step.
    <pre><code>
    SEMGREP_COMMIT=<em>COMMIT_HASH</em>
    </code></pre>

Sample values:

```
# Set the repository URL
$> SEMGREP_REPO_URL=https://github.com/corporation/s_juiceshop

# Set the repository name
$> SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=corporation/s_juiceshop

# Retrieve the branch 
$> git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD
s_update
# Set the branch

> $> SEMGREP_BRANCH=s_update

Reviewer 2: we have to be precise on how to set these environment variables. Notice the `export` for my terminal (zshell):
```bash
export SEMGREP_REPO_URL="https://gitlab.com/r2c1/demos/juice-shop"
export SEMGREP_BRANCH="semgrep_gitlab"
```

# Retrieve the commit hash
$> git log -n 1
commit fa4e36b9369e5b039bh2220b5h9R61a38b077f29 (HEAD -> s_juiceshop, origin/master, origin/HEAD, master)
# Set the commit hash

> $> SEMGREP_COMMIT=fa4e36b9369e5b039bh2220b5h9R61a38b077f29

Reviewer 2: Can we anonymize the commit hash, even if it's just changing 1 or 2 alpha numericals?

* A local Git repository in your machine. Projects from your local machine are integrated through Semgrep CLI.

Semgrep App can run scans on many projects with rules set in the Rule Board. First-time Semgrep App users scan projects with pre-selected rules chosen based on the repository's language and framework. To view these pre-selected rules, see the [Registry default ruleset](https://semgrep.dev/p/default).

Over time, users modify the Rule Board with rules specific to their codebase's security or business goals.  

#### Option A: Scanning a local repository through Semgrep CLI

Scanning a project from the CLI is a standalone action. This means that you manually triggered the scan. Scans from CLI are not continuous nor scheduled, unlike scans run in a CI job.

**Prequisite:** Semgrep CLI must be installed. See [Getting started with Semgrep CLI](../../getting-started).

1. Ensure you are signed in to Semgrep App.
2. Click **Projects** on the left sidebar.
3. Click **Scan new project** > **Run a scan locally**.
4. Log in to Semgrep from the CLI:

> ``` 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ``` 
```

> semgrep login

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    semgrep login
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```
```

6. Follow the instructions on the CLI.
5. After logging in, run a scan by entering the following command. This command sends the findings to Semgrep App.

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```
```

> semgrep ci

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    semgrep ci
```

> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```
```

*Figure 1.* Partial screenshot of findings page with no hyperlinks.

Local repository scans require additional configuration to **create hyperlinks to their corresponding remote repositories**. Set up environment variables within your command line to configure cross-linking between local and remote repositories within Semgrep App.

![Screenshot of sample environment variables on a Linux shell](../img/app-ci-setenvvar.png "Screenshot of sample environment variables on a Linux shell")
*Figure 2.* Sample environment variables set up on a Linux shell.

To set up environment variables:

1. Ensure that your current working directory is the root of the repository to create links for. 
2. Set up the `SEMGREP_REPO_URL`:
    1. Retrieve the URL by navigating to your online repository. Copy the value in the address bar. This is your `URL_ADDRESS`.
    2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `URL_ADDRESS` with the value from the previous step.
    <pre><code>
    export SEMGREP_REPO_URL=<em>URL_ADDRESS</em>
    </code></pre>
3. Set up the `SEMGREP_BRANCH`:
    1. Run the following to retrieve the branch name:

>     ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        ```bash
```

        git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD
    ```
    2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `BRANCH_NAME` with the value from the previous step.
    <pre><code>
    export SEMGREP_BRANCH=<em>BRANCH_NAME</em>
    </code></pre>
4. Set up the `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME`:
    1. Retrieve the repository name by logging in to your GitHub or GitLab account and copying the repository name from your dashboard. 
    2. Set the variable by entering the text below, substituting `REPO_NAME` with the value from the previous step.
    <pre><code>
    export SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=<em>REPO_NAME</em>
    </code></pre>
5. Set up the `SEMGREP_COMMIT`:
    1. Run the following to retrieve the commit hash:
    ```bash
        git log -n 1

>     ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        ```
```
